let's now bring in Maran bashara aler
senior political analyst he joins us
today from Doha Maran another visit from
blinkin now given what we're seeing
there in Rafa and the hopes that we're
hearing about there from from T of the
people on the ground do you think that
Lincoln's visit might take any kind of a
different tone from the last
few you know one would hope so Nastasia
especially that his last few trips were
incredible
uh counterproductive in fact they've led
to more violence and more casualties
among the Palestinians at the end of
November he assured us that he got the
commitment from prime minister Netanyahu
that Israel will protect civilians since
then 6,000 additional children were
killed by Israel doubl that number among
the civilians of Gaza so clearly neither
uh secretary blink's effort nor prime
minister Netanyahu assurances to the
Secretary of State have been helpful you
would hope that this time around things
are different now judging from his press
conference uh this evening one cannot be
that hopeful because it sound that his
uh holer than thou approach as if
America uh you know has been uh the uh
humanitarian in Chief is just not just
deceiving it's mind bugling it's it's
insulting to our intelligence I mean the
United States has been a participant it
has been a participant in the war
cabinet meeting in the Israeli
government it's American Arms American
money and American diplomacy that
allowed this plausible genocide uh to go
forward the past four months so for the
Secretary of State to continue to be
Israel's Advocate Israel's foreign
minister and at the same time wants to
play mediator an honest broker I think
there's a contrad in term here so I
think once he goes to Israel tomorrow he
needs to start behaving not uh like
Israel's Advocate but more like a
mediator of a superpower type where
America should use its leverage with
Israel if America is serious about
ending the war and freeing the captives
as well of course as the prisoners you
mentioned leverage there ma now in that
press conference blinkin was confronted
with the idea that Israel's Defiance of
requests that we've that we've seen is
making Washington look weak but it was
interesting to see blinkin took credit
for getting humanitarian Aid into Gaza
saying that that shows that Israel is
listening to the White House what did
you make of
that now that's the part that's probably
you know as an analyst you know would
make me roll my eyes uh not just not
once not twice but countless times just
listening to a diplomat saying that or
taking credit for the humanitarian Aid
which is basically few trucks of food
before people were killed again in Gaza
while America was a participant in the
war I it's just kind of incredulous uh
for uh uh you know the Secretary of
State to be taking credit for the
humanitarian assistance to a people he I
mean his country is helping uh kill and
destroy and displace within the Gaza
Strip I mean that part was was a bit too
harsh to accept from any Diplomat let
alone from an American Diplomat but once
again one would hope that you know
secretary blinkin would start uh
shedding uh that kind of a you know
Israel Advocate stance that holier than
thou uh uh approach and start taking a
more credible more responsible more
grownup approach to this issue that is
turning to a full-fledged genocide
perhaps bording on
extermination if the Israelis continues
with continue with their Onslaught
Beyond ra into kanun where some two
million people now are concentrated
basically helpless basically homeless in
the southern part of Gaza Maran as all
of this continues I've been wondering
how the US and Anthony blinkin is now
being regarded by by other Regional
Powers we listened to blinkin constantly
emphasized how the US wants to
deescalate tensions right but how are
for instance the US strikes that that
have been taking place in the region how
are those being read especially by all
the regional
Powers look despite uh the American
diplomats attempts at saying that this
has nothing to do with what's going on
in Gaza unfortunately for him it has
everything to do with what's going on in
Gaza I mean clearly those groups whether
you agree them or disagree them whether
you want to denounce them or praise them
they certainly have reacted uh after the
genocide started to unravel in plain
sight uh in Gaza it is a situation that
is getting out of hand slowly but surely
America now is engaged in war on
different fronts it's bombing in Yemen
it's bombing in Syria in Iraq it could
be bombing next AR God knows where in in
in Lebanon and Beyond so despite
attempts or despite keeping up the
appearances of wanting to wind down the
war and
limit its uh spread in the region
America is now engaged on behalf of
Israel in a war across the region now
this is not to the liking of America's
allies who have basically invited the
United States to come in and to be
responsible you know as a broker as a
mediator as a protector for some of
those States for fear of I don't know
their neighbors or or whoever but the
United States especially over the last
four months have acted so irresponsibly
that it's putting in danger even its
allies because public opinion is boiling
radical groups are becoming more and
more popular because of America's
support to Israel's genocide in Gaza so
once again we have to go back to square
one it's time to end the war this war
has run its course America understands
that it's time to do it now this is
perhaps the last chance to save the
captives in Gaza because if the war goes
on now to kanun and God knows what will
happen to those captives it is a last
chance also to save the Palestinians
from another uh perhaps an extermination
or displacement in the south of Gaza
it's time for the United States also to
do so because once again as I said it is
widening the war and it's going to get
implicated into another uh Forever War
and the region something Biden has said
once and again that he wants to avoid so
all the signs all the signals all the
roads lead to a truce a ceasefire a
permanent one where there'll be
rebuilding of Gaza exchange of captives
and prisoners and hopefully quickly the
withdrawal of Israeli forces from
occupied territories and establishment
of some sort of an independent
contiguous Sovereign Palestinian State
otherwise we're going to be once again
in the cycle of violence that's going to
implicate everyone including the United
States well we'll see what emerges from
that meeting tomorrow Maan Bashar aler
senior political analyst always great to
hear your thoughts Maan thanks for
joining us
again